[学习通](https://mooc1.chaoxing.com/mooc-ans/mooc2/work/view?courseId=240832925&classId=92306555&cpi=266037146&workId=33956925&answerId=52972434&enc=dbc560efbc050dec9ef87d741c944dfa)

An application can rely on the connection to deliver all of its data without error and in the proper order. The sentence describes **reliable data transfer**.

The Internet’s connection-oriented service is named as **TCP**.

The Internet’s connectionless service is called **UDP**.

In the following applications, which one is a loss-tolerant application? **real-time audio**

In the following applications, which one uses UDP? **DNS**

In the following descriptions about HTTP, which one is not correct? **HTTP uses non-persistent connections in its default mode.**

Suppose a web page consists of a base HTML file, 9 jpg images and a Java applet, and also suppose HTTP uses persistent connection without pipelining, the total response time is **$12$ RTT**

The Internet mail system has three components, which are **user agent, SMTP, mail server**.

In the following protocols, which one is stateless? **HTTP**

The time it takes for a small packet to travel from client to server and then back to the client is **round-trip time**.

Suppose A ( with a Web-based email account ) sends a message to B ( who accesses his mail server using POP3), which of the following application-layer protocols is not used? **IMAP**

A process sends messages into, and receives messages from, the network through its **socket**.

The **RTT** takes for a small packet to travel from client to server and then back to the client.

The default mode of HTTP uses **persistent connection with pipelining**.

In the following four options about web cache, which one is not correct? **A web cache can raise the response time for a client request.**

There are three classes of DNS servers, they are **root DNS server, top-level domain DNS server and authoritative DNS server**.

If the `Connection` header is `close`, it means that the client uses **nonpersistent connection**.

In HTTP response message, if the `Date` header indicates the time `Fri. 08 Aug. 2019 12:00:00 GMT`, the `Last-Modified` header can not be **`Fri. 08 Aug. 2019 12:30:00 GMT`**.

In the following four options, which one is not the part of cookie technology? **A network entity that satisfies HTTP requests on the behalf of an origin Web server.**

**F** A user requests a Web page that consists of some text and three images. For this page, the client will send one request message and receive four response messages.

**F** With nonpersistent connection between browser and origin server, it is possible for a single TCP segment to carry two distinct HTTP request messages.

**F** The `Date` header in the HTTP response message indicates when the object in the response was last modified

**F** HTTP response messages never have an empty message body.

**T** Two distinct Web pages (for example, www.mit.edu/research.html and www.mit.edu/students.html) can be sent over the same persistent connection.

For a P2P file-sharing application, do you agree with the statement, "There is no notion of client and server sides of a communication session"? Why or why not?

```text
不同意。任何一次会话都有一个客户和一个服务器，通常而言，接收方为客户，发送方为服务器。
```

Suppose Alice, with a Web-based email account (such as Hotmail or Gmail), sends a message to Bob, who accesses his mail from his mail server using POP3. Discuss how the message gets from Alice's host to Bob's host. Be sure to list the series of application-layer protocols that are used to move the message between the two hosts.

```text
从 Alice 的主机到她的服务器：HTTP  
从 Alice 的服务器到 Bob 的服务器：SMTP
从 Bob 的服务器到他的主机：POP3
```

> Starwar skipped

Suppose you can access the caches in the local DNS servers of your department. Can you propose a way to roughly determine the Web servers (outside your department) that are most popular among the users in your department? Explain.

```text
定期检查本地 DNS 服务器的 DNS 缓存，出现最频繁的 Web 服务器就是最受欢迎的。
```

> CS / P2P skipped