Suppose nodes A and B are on the same 10 Mbps Ethernet bus, and the propagation delay between the two nodes is 225 bit times.

Suppose A and B send frames at the same time, the frames collide, and then A and B choose different values of K in the CSMA/CD algorithm.

Assuming no other nodes are active, can the retransmissions from A and B collide?

For our purposes, it suffices to work out the following example.

Suppose A and B begin transmission at t = 0 bit times. They both detect collisions at t = 225 bit times. They finish transmitting a jam signal at t = 225+48=273 bit times. Suppose KA = 0 and KB = 1. At what time does B schedule its retransmission? At what time does A begin transmission? (Note :The nodes must wait for an idle channel after returning to Step 2 –see protocol. ) At what time does A's signal reach B? Does B refrain from transmitting at its scheduled time.

```text
B 计划于 273 + 1 * 512 = 785 进行重传，而 A 于 273 + 0 = 273 重传，这一重传信号于 273 + 225 = 498 到达 B 处，早于计划时间 785，因此不会碰撞
```

Suppose nodes A and B are on the same 10Mbps Ethernet bus, and the propagation delay between the two nodes is 225 bit times. Suppose node A begins transmitting a frame and, before it finishes, node B begins transmitting a frame. Can A finish transmitting before it detects that B has transmitted? Why or why not? If the answer is yes, then A incorrectly believes that its frame was successfully transmitted without a collision.

Hint: Suppose at time t = 0 bit times, A begins to transmitting a frame. In the worst case, A transmits a minimum-sized frame of 512+64 bit times. So A would finish transmitting the frame at t = 512 +64 bit times. Thus, the answer is no, if B’s signal reaches A before bit time t= 512+64 bits. In the worst case, when does B’s signal reach A?

